So great,
now we're going to instantiate an object.
So we're gonna create our
first object using that
Rectangle class that we just made.
So we're gonna write a class
that creates instances of
Rectangle to find the total
area of two rooms in a house.
So now you start seeing, okay,
if I thought about this room that we're
in right now, this is a rectangle, right?
So you start seeing how the real world
can be modeled as objects within Java,
all right?
So let's go back and
we're gonna create a new class,
and we're gonna call this
one HomeAreaCalculator.
All right, so let's make our main,
And we're gonna create an instance
of the Rectangle class.
Now, to do this,
it's like we did the scanner.
Do the name of the class,
that it becomes the type.
So, so far, we've looked at
primitive data types, int, Boolean,
double, string, char, Rectangle or
any other object can also be a type, okay?
So this has become our type, and then it's
a variable, we give the variable a name.
So you can name this whatever you want,
I'm gonna name it room1.
And then to instantiate the variable,
that means, I mean instantiate the object,
that means to go ahead and create the
object, you're gonna use the keyword new.
And then you're gonna call
one of its constructors.
Remember if it did not define
any constructor at all,
the default one will still
be available for you to use.
We have two constructors,
so we can use either one,
let's go ahead and use the default one.
And for room2, we'll use the other one so
I can show you
the difference between them.
All right, so now we have room1, and
we've called into the constructor
to instantiate it.
So what's the length and
the width of room1 right now?
>> Zero.
>> Zero, because that's what we said
we were gonna do in our constructor.
So using this object,
now we have access to all of the behavior,
all of the methods that are defined
in the rectangle class.
So I can say room1., boom and
we see everything that we've defined.
So let's go ahead and set the length,
and we'll set the length to 50,
and we'll set the width,
we can just set that to maybe 25.
All right, and now I want to
create the area of this room.
So I can say double areaOfRoom1
= room1.calculateArea.
So now we got an object going, all right?
Let's do the same thing for room2.
So this time,
we'll say Rectangle room2 = new Rectangle.
And let's go ahead and call the other
constructor with the length and the width.
And that way, we won't have to do
those method calls for the values.
So we'll say 30, maybe 75, Okay?
And now, I don't have to call
those setters anymore, so
I can say room2.calculateArea, right?
And let's go ahead and
store that in a variable.
So we'll say double areaOfRoom2 =.
All right, so you see the difference
between the two with the constructors.
>> First, when you're using setters
[INAUDIBLE] you're setting it directly.
>> Yeah, so I use the default constructor,
and then I use methods to set stuff up.
And then because they did
provide me with one, cuz I mean,
every time you use an object,
that specific object may not have
the constructors that you need to set
everything up the way you want it to.
So sometimes you may have to use one of
its constructors and then add a little
bit more to it or something to set
its state the way you need it set.
Or say, for example,
I created this rectangle, and
then I did input from a user.
And then I wanna set it as I'm getting
the input, so that allow me to be
a little bit more flexible with
how I set the object up, right?
So we want the prompt set to calculate
the total area of both of these rooms, so
we can just add these together.
totalArea = areaOfRoom1,
oops, I forgot my equal sign,
+ areaOfRoom2.
All right, and
then we can just print it out.
Area of both rooms.
All right, Amazing.
>> So you didn't have to import the
Rectangle class because it's of the same
package?
>> Yes, very good, very good.
So I did not have to import Rectangle
because it's in the same package.
So if something is in the same package,
Java can find it.
If this Rectangle class was outside
the package, and we'll try that later,
like we did with scanner, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So scanner lives in another package,
which is why we always have to import it.
>> But
if you commented out package objects,
it would suddenly not know anything about.
Yeah, it will complain that I don't
have a package declaration first,
but let's just move, maybe move Rectangle
just for a moment, you all don't do this.
Sure, oops, did I totally lose it?
>> Have you tried?
>> [INAUDIBLE] class.
>> I do, well, that's pretty neat.
How cool is that?
All right, that's not what I wanted to do.
[LAUGH] Okay,
let's just make a new Rectangle class.
Okay, public.
Okay, all right, and then when I come to
home calculator, now it does not, crap.
All right, How do I say yes?
Okay, [LAUGH] all right,
now it does not, no Rectangle, right?
It's like,
I don't know what you're talking about.
And then I would have to
import it from methods.
All right, so let's move that back.
[LAUGH] Okay, nice.
How do I close this whole thing?
Okay.
All right, cool,
any other questions about this so far?
>> Objects are just
collections of fields and
values kind of modeling
a certain behavior.
Objects, can they be composed
of other types of objects?
Let's say, as an example,
you have a car that's a base, but
then you might say a Ferrari or
a Ford or whatever, is that a-
>> Yeah,
so you could have more
specific types of objects.
So you could have, for example,
we have this Rectangle as a generic thing.
We could have created another class
called room that was more specific and
it could be an extension of
the Rectangle class, right?
And we'll talk more about that,
I think what you were asking is,
could you have an object within an object?
Yeah, you could do that sort of
thing as one of your fields.
So in the Rectangle field right here,
I have primitive data types,
doubles and ints, I could have another
object as a data type, for example.
>> So you could have a shape object,
where rectangles always have four sides,
but a circle might not, for example.
>> Yeah.
>> You could say a rectangle is
a kind of a shape.
>> Yeah.